Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.
A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
A group of cats is called a “clowder.”
A group of cats is called a “clowder.”
The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.
A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Most cats adore sardines.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
Cats walk on their toes.
The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.
A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.
A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
Cats have 3 eyelids.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
